---
layout: post
title: "Open Source Experiences"
subtitle: ""
date: 2023-08-28 12:40:0
background: "/img/posts/09.jpg"
---

Welcome, dear readers, to a candid and heartfelt exploration of the world of open source. In this digital age, where information and innovation flow freely, the concept of open source has taken centre stage, revolutionising the way we create, collaborate, and contribute. This blog post is a window into few personal journey of people who are active contributor to open source project, an intimate narrative of how sharing experiences and knowledge in the open realm has enriched their life and transformed the way they perceive technology.

In a landscape where proprietary walls once towered, restricting access to code and creative endeavours, open source has emerged as a beacon of inclusivity, transparency, and collective wisdom. It's not just about coding; it's about a community that fosters learning, growth, and the spirit of giving back. Join me as I peel back the layers of the open source voyage, from tentative first steps to the flourishing collaborations that have shaped our perspective.

Let's look at experiences of few of my college mates and seniors, who've made significant contributions! I've circulated a google form containing few questions related to their experiences and what kept them motivated to contribute further, and I'm going to share their experiences here with you guys. Let's get started with it ! They have made significant contributions in reknowned organizations like [ML Pack](https://www.mlpack.org/), [Wasmedge](https://wasmedge.org/), [Mathesar](https://mathesar.org/), [Oppia](https://www.oppia.org/) , [p5js](https://p5js.org/), [Palisadoes](https://www.palisadoes.org/). These were the few questions I had asked my fellow Open Source Contributors and here's what I've gotten, I'm quoting few of my best responses here,

## How were you introduced to Open Source and what kept you motivated in contributing to the same?

> "I was first introduced to this concept by my seniors at IIT BHU. At first, I found it almost unbelievable – a community coming together to create professional-grade software, and all of it being freely accessible? However, as I delved deeper and became an active member, I quickly realized just how incredible and authentic it truly is. My primary motivation for contributing has always been the inclusivity of this community, where individuals from diverse backgrounds, cultures, and expertise levels collaborate to develop software and assist people."
~ Eshaan Aggarwal, GSoC 23 (Palisadoes)

> "I was pleasantly surprised to discover that I could not only utilize open-source software but also actively contribute to it. The open-source community's incredible support and encouragement continue to inspire me to contribute further."
~ Anshuman Maurya, GSoC 22 (Oppia), GSoC 23 (Mathesar)

## What challenges did you encounter during your open source contributions, and how did you overcome them?

> "Understanding a new codebase is always the most difiicult task. Giving time to it eventually helps."
~ Anshuman Maurya, GSoC 22 (Oppia), GSoC 23 (Mathesar)

> "Working with a huge team of contributors, all making daily changes to the same files, and dealing with so many merge conflicts that arise out of the same was the biggest challenge! Also keeping myself motivated when stuck on a problem and managing personal commitments with my project timeline was something that I initially struggled with quite a bit."
~ Eshaan Aggarwal, GSoC 23 (Palisadoes)

## How has your experience with open source projects enhanced your coding skills and technical knowledge?

> "It helped my sharpen my existing skills and also learn new languages and techstack like Rust, Wasm etc."
~Eshaan Agarwal GSoC 22 (ML Pack), LFX 23 (Wasmedge)

> "I have gained most of my technical skills in backend development and testing due to this project itself. The project provided me with faith and belief that even I can write code that is production ready. The project has educated me on the importance of technical communication, documentation, technical writing and collaboration workflows within an organisation to ensure that multiple projects can work simultaneously without conflicts and wastage of efforts."
~ Eshaan Aggarwal, GSoC 23 (Palisadoes)